README.md, before:

## Introduction

This assignment uses data from
the <a href="http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/">UC Irvine Machine
Learning Repository</a>, a popular repository for machine learning
datasets. In particular, we will be using the "Individual household
electric power consumption Data Set" which I have made available on
the course web site:


* <b>Dataset</b>: <a href="https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip">Electric power consumption</a> [20Mb]

* <b>Description</b>: Measurements of electric power consumption in
one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost
4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values
are available.


The following descriptions of the 9 variables in the dataset are taken
from
the <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption">UCI
web site</a>:

<ol>
<li><b>Date</b>: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy </li>
<li><b>Time</b>: time in format hh:mm:ss </li>
<li><b>Global_active_power</b>: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Global_reactive_power</b>: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Voltage</b>: minute-averaged voltage (in volt) </li>
<li><b>Global_intensity</b>: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere) </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_1</b>: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered). </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_2</b>: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light. </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_3</b>: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.</li>
</ol>

## Loading the data





When loading the dataset into R, please consider the following:

* The dataset has 2,075,259 rows and 9 columns. First
calculate a rough estimate of how much memory the dataset will require
in memory before reading into R. Make sure your computer has enough
memory (most modern computers should be fine).

* We will only be using data from the dates 2007-02-01 and
2007-02-02. One alternative is to read the data from just those dates
rather than reading in the entire dataset and subsetting to those
dates.

* You may find it useful to convert the Date and Time variables to
Date/Time classes in R using the `strptime()` and `as.Date()`
functions.

* Note that in this dataset missing values are coded as `?`.


## Making Plots

Our overall goal here is simply to examine how household energy usage
varies over a 2-day period in February, 2007. Your task is to
reconstruct the following plots below, all of which were constructed
using the base plotting system.

First you will need to fork and clone the following GitHub repository:
[https://github.com/rdpeng/ExData_Plotting1](https://github.com/rdpeng/ExData_Plotting1)


For each plot you should

* Construct the plot and save it to a PNG file with a width of 480
pixels and a height of 480 pixels.

* Name each of the plot files as `plot1.png`, `plot2.png`, etc.

* Create a separate R code file (`plot1.R`, `plot2.R`, etc.) that
constructs the corresponding plot, i.e. code in `plot1.R` constructs
the `plot1.png` plot. Your code file **should include code for reading
the data** so that the plot can be fully reproduced. You should also
include the code that creates the PNG file.

* Add the PNG file and R code file to your git repository

When you are finished with the assignment, push your git repository to
GitHub so that the GitHub version of your repository is up to
date. There should be four PNG files and four R code files.


The four plots that you will need to construct are shown below. 


### Plot 1


![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-2](figure/unnamed-chunk-2.png) 


### Plot 2

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-3](figure/unnamed-chunk-3.png) 


### Plot 3

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-4](figure/unnamed-chunk-4.png) 


### Plot 4

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-5](figure/unnamed-chunk-5.png) 



## The Course Project files

The script files have been created using the requerid names `plot1.R`,
`plot2.R`, etc., if the input data file `household_power_consumption.txt` is
not already present in the current working directory then when any of these
scripts is executed it will automatically download the Data Set zip from the
URL mentioned above, and then it will unzip the downloaded file to generate the
`household_power_consumption.txt` file.  If all the scripts are executed in the
same folder then the input file will be downloaded and unziped only once.

The scripts load the data from `household_power_consumption.txt` into a
`data.table` variable named `power.data,` it is processed to keep only the
dates 2007-02-01 and 2007-02-02 and add a new column named `Date_time` of type
`POSIXct` (date and time), it is created from the existing columns `Date` and
`Time` using the input format day/month/year hour:minute:second.

The variable `power.data` will remain in the global environment and data won't
be loaded again if it already exists, if all the scripts are sourced into the
same session then the input file will be loaded and processed only once
(provided a conflicting variable with the same name didn't already exist before
sourcing any of these plot scripts).

To execute the scripts just open a new R session, change the working directory
to the folder that contains these scripts and source them, the output png files
will be created immediately, there is no need to manually call an additional
function to trigger the execution:

```
source("plot1.R")
source("plot2.R")
source("plot3.R")
source("plot4.R")
```

The png device is used to plot the graphics, and the files `plot1.png`,
`plot2.png`, etc, will be created in the current directory.


### Plots

Click the thumbnails to see the whole image

[<img src="plot1.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot1.png)
[<img src="plot2.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot2.png)
[<img src="plot3.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot3.png)
[<img src="plot4.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot4.png)

Commit message:

Adjusted wording of plot thumbnails
Changed wording in README file for the plot thumbnails

README.md, after:

## Introduction

This assignment uses data from
the <a href="http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/">UC Irvine Machine
Learning Repository</a>, a popular repository for machine learning
datasets. In particular, we will be using the "Individual household
electric power consumption Data Set" which I have made available on
the course web site:


* <b>Dataset</b>: <a href="https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/exdata%2Fdata%2Fhousehold_power_consumption.zip">Electric power consumption</a> [20Mb]

* <b>Description</b>: Measurements of electric power consumption in
one household with a one-minute sampling rate over a period of almost
4 years. Different electrical quantities and some sub-metering values
are available.


The following descriptions of the 9 variables in the dataset are taken
from
the <a href="https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Individual+household+electric+power+consumption">UCI
web site</a>:

<ol>
<li><b>Date</b>: Date in format dd/mm/yyyy </li>
<li><b>Time</b>: time in format hh:mm:ss </li>
<li><b>Global_active_power</b>: household global minute-averaged active power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Global_reactive_power</b>: household global minute-averaged reactive power (in kilowatt) </li>
<li><b>Voltage</b>: minute-averaged voltage (in volt) </li>
<li><b>Global_intensity</b>: household global minute-averaged current intensity (in ampere) </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_1</b>: energy sub-metering No. 1 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the kitchen, containing mainly a dishwasher, an oven and a microwave (hot plates are not electric but gas powered). </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_2</b>: energy sub-metering No. 2 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to the laundry room, containing a washing-machine, a tumble-drier, a refrigerator and a light. </li>
<li><b>Sub_metering_3</b>: energy sub-metering No. 3 (in watt-hour of active energy). It corresponds to an electric water-heater and an air-conditioner.</li>
</ol>

## Loading the data





When loading the dataset into R, please consider the following:

* The dataset has 2,075,259 rows and 9 columns. First
calculate a rough estimate of how much memory the dataset will require
in memory before reading into R. Make sure your computer has enough
memory (most modern computers should be fine).

* We will only be using data from the dates 2007-02-01 and
2007-02-02. One alternative is to read the data from just those dates
rather than reading in the entire dataset and subsetting to those
dates.

* You may find it useful to convert the Date and Time variables to
Date/Time classes in R using the `strptime()` and `as.Date()`
functions.

* Note that in this dataset missing values are coded as `?`.


## Making Plots

Our overall goal here is simply to examine how household energy usage
varies over a 2-day period in February, 2007. Your task is to
reconstruct the following plots below, all of which were constructed
using the base plotting system.

First you will need to fork and clone the following GitHub repository:
[https://github.com/rdpeng/ExData_Plotting1](https://github.com/rdpeng/ExData_Plotting1)


For each plot you should

* Construct the plot and save it to a PNG file with a width of 480
pixels and a height of 480 pixels.

* Name each of the plot files as `plot1.png`, `plot2.png`, etc.

* Create a separate R code file (`plot1.R`, `plot2.R`, etc.) that
constructs the corresponding plot, i.e. code in `plot1.R` constructs
the `plot1.png` plot. Your code file **should include code for reading
the data** so that the plot can be fully reproduced. You should also
include the code that creates the PNG file.

* Add the PNG file and R code file to your git repository

When you are finished with the assignment, push your git repository to
GitHub so that the GitHub version of your repository is up to
date. There should be four PNG files and four R code files.


The four plots that you will need to construct are shown below. 


### Plot 1


![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-2](figure/unnamed-chunk-2.png) 


### Plot 2

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-3](figure/unnamed-chunk-3.png) 


### Plot 3

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-4](figure/unnamed-chunk-4.png) 


### Plot 4

![plot of chunk unnamed-chunk-5](figure/unnamed-chunk-5.png) 



## The Course Project files

The script files have been created using the requerid names `plot1.R`,
`plot2.R`, etc., if the input data file `household_power_consumption.txt` is
not already present in the current working directory then when any of these
scripts is executed it will automatically download the Data Set zip from the
URL mentioned above, and then it will unzip the downloaded file to generate the
`household_power_consumption.txt` file.  If all the scripts are executed in the
same folder then the input file will be downloaded and unziped only once.

The scripts load the data from `household_power_consumption.txt` into a
`data.table` variable named `power.data,` it is processed to keep only the
dates 2007-02-01 and 2007-02-02 and add a new column named `Date_time` of type
`POSIXct` (date and time), it is created from the existing columns `Date` and
`Time` using the input format day/month/year hour:minute:second.

The variable `power.data` will remain in the global environment and data won't
be loaded again if it already exists, if all the scripts are sourced into the
same session then the input file will be loaded and processed only once
(provided a conflicting variable with the same name didn't already exist before
sourcing any of these plot scripts).

To execute the scripts just open a new R session, change the working directory
to the folder that contains these scripts and source them, the output png files
will be created immediately, there is no need to manually call an additional
function to trigger the execution:

```
source("plot1.R")
source("plot2.R")
source("plot3.R")
source("plot4.R")
```

The png device is used to plot the graphics, and the files `plot1.png`,
`plot2.png`, etc, will be created in the current directory.


### Project Plots

Click the thumbnails to see the whole image of the plots created with the projects' `plot?.R` scripts.

[<img src="plot1.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot1.png)
[<img src="plot2.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot2.png)
[<img src="plot3.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot3.png)
[<img src="plot4.png" width="180" heigth="180">](plot4.png)
